Hello and welcome back!
Today we will look at conversation for
receptionists at a doctor's office.
You will learn:
important vocabulary
commonly used sentences
good communication skills
and how to speak with patients
in person and over the phone
Let's begin!
A receptionist is someone
who handles the front desk.
Some important vocabulary for a receptionist
who works at a doctor's office is:
doctor
patient
nurse
blood work
report
pharmacy
medication
and prescription
Next, it's important to remember that
good communication is very important.
A receptionist communicates with:
doctors
patients
laboratories
and pharmacies
Some duties include:
answering phone
calls booking cancelling
and rescheduling appointments
taking messages for the doctor
answering patient inquiries
managing patient information such as:
address
health card
and phone numbers
When you work as a receptionist you will
be answering phone calls all day long.
A greeting that you can
use over and over again is:
Hello Dr Edgar's office, Melissa speaking.
or you can say:
Hello, Dr Edgar's office, Melissa speaking.
How can I help you?
Now let's look at some polite
ways of asking someone to wait.
If you're on the phone, you can say:
Can you hold a moment please?
Repeat after me.
or you can say:
One moment please.
In person you can say:
I'll be with you in a minute.
Then you should say:
Thank you for waiting.
Or you can say:
Thanks for waiting.
Great work!
Some common questions that a
receptionist would ask a patient include:
What's the first name?
Repeat after me.
What's the last name?
What is your phone number?
What is your address?
Great work!
For which day?
Repeat after me.
How is Monday?
Morning or afternoon?
How is 3 p.m?
Is 3 pm?
How is 10 am?
You're all set.
Great work!
Next let's look at some conversations
between a receptionist and a patient.
Patient 1
Hello Dr. Edgar's office, Sarah speaking.
Hi, how are you?
Great thanks! How can I help you?
I wanted to book an appointment with Dr Edgar.
For which day?
As soon as possible.
How is wednesday 10 am?
That works.
What's the first name?
Liam.
What's the last name?
Marcelli.
You're all set.
Dr Edgar will see you on Wednesday at 10 a.m.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Bye-bye.
Patient 2
Hello Dr. Edgar's office, Sarah speaking.
How can I help you?
Hi, how are you?
Good, thank you!
I wanted to inquire about my blood work.
Are the reports in.
What's your name?
Emma Braxton.
Just a moment please.
Thanks for waiting.
Your reports are in.
Dr Edgar would like to see you.
Can you come in this Friday.
No i'm busy Friday.
Okay, how is Monday.
Monday works.
Morning or afternoon?
Morning is fine.
How is 9 00 am?
That's fine .
You're all set.
Dr. Edgar will see you on Monday at 9 am.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Bye now.
Patient 3.
Hi Dr. Edgar's office, can you hold a moment?
I'll be with you in a minute.
Thanks for waiting.
How can I help you?
I need to cancel my appointment for Wednesday.
Sure what's your name?
Liam Marceli.
Okay, your appointment for
Wednesday has been canceled.
Thanks for letting us know.
Okay thanks.
Bye bye now.
Hi, thanks for waiting.
How can i help you?
I have an appointment with Dr Edgar.
Okay I will check you in.
Can I see your health card please?
Is your address still 145 Yonge Street, Toronto.
Yes and your contact number is 289-548-9280?
My number has changed.
What's your new number?
It is (219) 238-2838.
Okay please have a seat.
We will call you in soon.
Let's listen to the three
conversations one more time.
Patient 1
Hello Dr. Edgar's office, Sarah speaking.
Hi, how are you?
Great thanks! How can I help you?
I wanted to book an appointment with Dr Edgar.
For which day?
As soon as possible.
How is wednesday 10 am?
That works.
What's the first name?
Liam.
What's the last name?
Marcelli.
You're all set.
Dr Edgar will see you on Wednesday at 10 a.m.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Bye-bye.
Patient 2
Hello Dr. Edgar's office, Sarah speaking.
How can I help you?
Hi, how are you?
Good, thank you!
I wanted to inquire about my blood work.
Are the reports in.
What's your name?
Emma Braxton.
Just a moment please.
Thanks for waiting.
Your reports are in.
Dr Edgar would like to see you.
Can you come in this Friday.
No i'm busy Friday.
Okay, how is Monday.
Monday works.
Morning or afternoon?
Morning is fine.
How is 9 00 am?
That's fine .
You're all set.
Dr. Edgar will see you on Monday at 9 am.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Bye now.
Patient 3.
Hi Dr. Edgar's office, can you hold a moment?
I'll be with you in a minute.
Thanks for waiting.
How can I help you?
I need to cancel my appointment for Wednesday.
Sure what's your name?
Liam Marceli.
Okay, your appointment for
Wednesday has been canceled.
Thanks for letting us know.
Okay thanks.
Bye bye now.
Hi, thanks for waiting.
How can i help you?
I have an appointment with Dr Edgar.
Okay I will check you in.
Can I see your health card please?
Is your address still 145 Yonge Street, Toronto.
Yes and your contact number is 289-548-9280?
My number has changed.
What's your new number?
It is (219) 238-2838.
Okay please have a seat.
We will call you in soon.
That will be all for today.
I hope you found this lesson helpful.
I will see you next time in a new job setting.
Have a wonderful day! Bye.